So to summarize,
cryptocurrency is
a highly controversial and
very risky new asset class.
Now, the big question that
many focus on is will
cryptocurrency some day function
as a medium of exchange?
But actually, that's
not quite right.
Here's a more nuanced
and correct version.
Will enough people believe that
enough people believe that
enough people believe,
etc, that cryptocurrency will
someday function as a
medium of exchange?
If this is the case,
then beliefs can be
self-fulfilling,
and without cryptocurrency ever
really being a
medium of exchange,
it can function as
a store of value.
Note however, that
the potential for
multiple equilibria can
make prices unstable.
So let's talk about
why people might think
cryptocurrency could
be a medium of
exchange because that's
the key to its value.
Cryptocurrency
detractors focus on
the disadvantages namely,
relative to fiat money,
cryptocurrency has no sovereign
to declare it as legal tender.
In fact, some sovereigns are
actively hostile to crypto.
However, perhaps, the distributed
consensus that crypto
brings is more trustworthy
than any single sovereign.
That would be the advantage.
Now, what are the main advances
that has made crypto possible?
So many focus on the technological
advance of blockchain.
However, blockchain
is fundamentally and
advanced based on economics
not computer science.
So the breakthrough
is one of an idea.
The idea is that,
rather than make
tampering impossible,
create incentives so that
tampering is unprofitable.
In fact, at all levels,
Bitcoin, for example,
employs incentives
so that all players
work for the good of the system
as we discussed in
the second module.
However, I would argue that
the main advance even goes
beyond this fundamental
change and understanding.
Beyond incentives,
crypto relies on
probabilistic thinking.
So previously, the notion
of transaction validity,
say the non crypto world,
requires a 100 percent certainty.
If you make a transaction
with your credit card,
that transaction is verified
with a 100 percent certainty,
but crypto replaces this with
near but not a 100
percent certainty.
So thus, crypto creates
probabilistic property rights
that are decentralized,
and in some sense aversion
of probabilistic truth.
So this requires a
new way of thinking.
So it's not as if
you own something,
you just you something with
near certain probability.
So it's a really big change in
the way we think about
property rights,
and the way we might
think about, say,
transactions and how we
interact with each other.
Now, how does this come into
valuation asset allocation?
So in the 3th module,
I made the point
that it's easy to
argue based on
traditional finance,
that the value of
cryptocurrencies
should be exactly zero.
They pay no dividends after
all and they're only cash.
The traditional view of cash
is that you should hold as little
as possible just what you need
for transaction benefits.
So likewise, it is
easy to argue based on
traditional finance that
there's no room at all for
cryptocurrency in an optimal
investment portfolio.
I would say that
it's a little bit
too easy to argue these things.
On the other hand, if
you take the data on
cryptocurrency returns
at face value,
they look like they're a
pretty good investment.
However, there are serious
problems with both views.
So the traditional
finance view understates
the importance of cash for
transactions and as
a store of value.
So a richer view could
allow for valuation
of crypto based on
transaction advantages.
On the other data side,
crypto returns we have
to acknowledge our
inflated by survivor bias.
So how can we put all of
this together to build
potentially a new finance view
that would allow for crypto?
One thing to keep in mind
that's important
is that crypto is
a natural hedging asset that
suggests certain advantages.
So the times when people believed
that crypto is going
to function as
a medium of exchange
are likely to not
be the most stable
states of the world.
So this tells us a little
bit about what we might
expect from investing in crypto.
First of all, it's
going to be very
volatile because of the potential
for multiple equilibria,
we're relying on the beliefs of
everybody as opposed to
a stream of dividends.
We also should think
about the returns
as likely to not be very high.
Even so far, on most days,
one would lose money by
investing in ether or an ripple.
But on a deeper level,
if cryptocurrency
is a hedging assets
the returns should be low.
So the high average
returns that we've
observed might be anomalous.
But that's okay.
A hedging asset can have
lower returns because
you are using
it because it pays
off in not-so-good
states of the world.
Now, based on what we've seen in
the data and based
on this concept,
one thing that we
might expect for
cryptocurrency is when
we least expected,
we might see some very
large positive surprises.
Thank you all for coming on
this cryptocurrency
journey with me.